# Python-Elevator-Effeciency-Project

Run the elevator.py script to start the application (located in the scripts directory) and follow the instructions given in the console.

Description:
The Effecient Elevator Path script (written in Python3) starts by asking the user to provide essential input data into the application (all values are limited to 1-5). After detailing how many users will be on the elevator (would recommend a low number for testing purposes), we need to specify the details of the elevator users' path. The call time (priority) signifies when the user will press the elevator button to be picked up. The start floor determines what floor that the user is currently on and the destination floor signifies what floor the user will get off the elevator. Each user and their information are added to the User class when their information is provided. The elevator starts on floor 1 and time (priority) starts at 1. The elevator will then travel in order according to the priority number that is provided for each user and pick them up. The calc_order method is called (while sending it the list of users) to determine when to pick up the users. Each time the elevator moves, the floor count is incremented so we are able to detail the total number of floors the elevator travels. If multiple users have the same priority, the elevator will pick them up one at a time until all users of that priority are picked up. Then, the elevator makes a calculation using the get_target_floor method to determine the shortest route that the elevator will have to travel and determine who to drop off first. The elevator will continue to travel until there are no more users left. Then the program will print out the results of the number of floors traveled by the elevator. I added print statements throughout the program to keep track of when each user is picked up/dropped off and the floors that were traveled.
